docs(tutorial): update tutorial: manage container registry images with serverless functions (#1267)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/how-to/change-container-runtime.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to change the container runtime on an existing cluster
  description: This page explains how to change the container runtime on an existing cluster
content:
  h1: How to change the container runtime on an existing cluster
  paragraph: This page explains how to change the container runtime on an existing cluster
tags: cluster cni docker crio cri-o
dates:
  validation: 2023-01-31
  posted: 2023-01-31
categories:
  - containers
---

> A container runtime is, as one of the lowest layers of Kubernetes, the software that (in addition to other tasks) ensures that containers are started and stopped accordingly. Historically, Kubernetes used Docker as the container runtime. Still, with ongoing development, it became clear that it was not entirely suitable. With the rapidly evolving world of container runtimes, it became clear that other solutions might be better suited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A container runtime is one of the lowest layers of Kubernetes. This software ensures that containers are started and stopped correctly, in addition to other tasks. Historically, Kubernetes used Docker as the container runtime. However, with ongoing development, it became clear that it was not entirely suitable. With the rapidly evolving world of container runtimes, other, better-suited solutions, presented themselves.
```

To open up Kubernetes to other container runtimes, the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) was developed. This is a plugin in a Kubernetes cluster that allows the kubelet to use more than one type of container runtime. CRI consists of a protocol buffer and a gRPC API, as well as libraries, with additional specifications and tools.
At Scaleway, we focus on Containerd, the industry-leading solution. [Containerd](https://containerd.io/) was developed initially by Docker and donated to the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF). It uses a subset of the original Docker engine and comes with most of Docker's functionality for running containers and managing storage and images - but lacks many developer-oriented features. It is, therefore, suitable for large-scale use as part of a container orchestrator, such as Kubernetes. 

With Kubernetes version 1.25, Scaleway Kubernetes Kosmos will deprecate all Kubernetes interfaces named `docker` and `cri-o`.

If you are still using one of the deprecated container runtimes, your cluster will have the following limitations:
* Pools using deprecated CRIs cannot scale up.
* Control planes cannot be upgraded if the CRI used by a pool is deprecated.

> To migrate your 

Reviewer: ?
